# Step One

I don't want to talk about how many blogs I've abandoned.

Or that I'm worried I don't have anything interesting to say.

Those things don't matter. The only way I'm going to find my voice and become
better at turning abstract ideas into cogent arguments is to practice. So,
starting today I'm going to write a post, like this one, every single day. I'm
not going to spend the first day figuring out which cool new Jamstack framework
to publish with – I'm using Vercel for my online CV and that seems like it will
do everything I need a blog to do. Infact, I'm not even going to put this online
until I've proven to myself that I can actually write consistently. This isn't
about publicity, it's about improving myself.

My name is David and I'be been building software in some capacity for the last
twenty years. I've always loved being a generalist, and so have dipped my toe
into many different skill sets over the years. Coding has been the one constant,
and I guess I would call myself an expert at that. But even there I've switched
between ActionScript, Haxe, JavaScript, TypeScript... a bit of Python, some
Objective C and Java... and Swift seems pretty nice too.

Apart from coding, I've done enough of each of the following to at least know
where to start if I need to improve the skill further: 3D modelling and
animation, user experience design, commercial modelling (Excel is the only bit
of Microsoft software that I really like), infrasctructure and devops, video and
sound editing, French, Spanish, trombone, percussion, piano, guitar, cooking,
BBQ, coffee, space... you get the idea.

So what am I going to write about? I want to start a company. My generalist
skills allow me to turn ideas into fairly decent software in an efficient way.
But I worry that I'm not a good leader, than I'm unable to communicate my ideas
and plans in a way that might inspire someone to join me in building something.

Somewhat stereotypically the two tech leaders I admire most are Steve Jobs and
Elon Musk. I certainly don't agree with their views on everything – I don't
think you need to be an asshole to build a great company, and Elon in particular
has said some heinous things on Twitter over the years.

But I do admire their ability to build teams of great people, creating an
environment where ambitious, intelligent, creative people work their asses off
for the sheer joy of collaboration and creation. And part of that ability stems
from their ability to communicate a clear and compelling vision to brilliant
people, in a way that inspires and motivates them to build something great.

That's what I want to build. The times in my life where I was a part of a small,
taltented team collaborating on building software were my happiest. But as
companies grow they tend to quickly descend into politics, bureacracy and
laziness, and the talented, creative types are pulled further and futher away
from the joy of creation. I admire companies like Basecamp and Netflix that
continually work at holding back the creep of corporate nonsense – constantly
introspecting their processes, culture and vision to ensure their employees stay
because they feel the satisfaction of accountability, trust and pride in what
they are building.

So this blog, diary, journal – whatever. Will probably meander from thoughts on
how I will build something like that, what we might build together, and maybe
even the mechanics the software itself.

I'm not a bad writer, but I do hope that, over time, my ability to craft a
compelling narative here improves. I am a great beleiver that a person can learn
to be anything given enough determination and practice.

My goal is to better communicate this vision: to build a company where
brilliant, compasionate, creative, ambitious people can build something great
together and have the time of their lives doing it.
